Definition of Hajj The meaning of Hajj in the language refers to: the intention of the great thing, but in the legal terminology, it is: the intention of the Sacred House of God; To perform specific rituals, as it is defined as: visiting a specific place, at a specific time, with the intention of performing the rituals of Hajj after entering ihram for it, and the place is: the Kaaba, and Arafah, and the specific time is: the months of Hajj, which are: Shawwal, Dhul-Qa’dah, and Dhul-Hijjah.[1 Hajj is an obligation of Islam, and one of the pillars on which it is based, and its legitimacy has been proven in the Qur’an, Sunnah, and consensus. Among the texts indicating the obligation of Hajj from the Book of God: His saying - the Most High -: Who), [2] And he - the Almighty - said: (And complete the Hajj and Umrah for God).[ 3][4] And from the Sunnah of the Prophet: His saying - upon him be peace and blessings -: (Islam was built on five: bearing witness that there is no god but God and that Muhammad is the Messenger of God, establishing prayer, paying zakat, performing Hajj, and praying. And the day of Ramadan), [5] as it should Hajj once in a lifetime.[4] The evidence for that is what was proven on the authority of Abu Hurairah - may God be pleased with him - that he said: (The Messenger of God - may God’s prayers and peace be upon him - addressed us, and he said: O people, God has imposed Hajj on you, so perform the pilgrimage, and he said: man: Eating in general, O Messenger of God? I did not leave you, but those who were before you perished because of their many questions and their differences over their prophets, so if I order you something So come from it as much as you can, and if I forbid you to do something, then pray to it).[6][4] Muslims also unanimously agree that the Hajj is obligatory for the adult, sane, free Muslim, once in a lifetime if he has the ability and the ability to perform it. [7] The virtue of Hajj It is proven in the legal texts a lot of evidence that shows the virtues of Hajj, and the reward resulting from the performance of its rituals, including: [8] Considering it as one of the greatest acts and acts of worship and the most beloved to God; This is evidenced by what was authentically reported on the authority of Abu Hurairah - may God be pleased with him -: (The Messenger of God - may God’s prayers and peace be upon him - was asked: Which deed is the best? He said: Faith in God and His Messenger. It was said: Then what? He said: Jihad in the way of God. It was said: : then What? He said: An accepted Hajj).[9] Receiving the great reward for performing it is one of the greatest reasons for collecting wages and good deeds, expiating sins and transgressions, and the way to enter Paradise, as Imam Al-Bukhari included in his Sahih that the Prophet - upon him be blessings and peace - said: (Umrah To perform an Umrah is an expiation for what is between them, and an accepted Hajj has no reward except Paradise), [10] He also said: (Continue between Hajj and Umrah, for following up between them nullifies poverty and sins, just as the bellows annihilates the impurity of iron). [11] Wisdom From the legitimacy of the pilgrimage deduced the people Knowledge is from the verses and hadiths that mentioned Hajj, and its rituals indicated the wisdom of its legitimacy, and from that: that the Hajj is an occasion in which the monotheism of God Almighty is achieved, as he said - Glory be to Him -: (And when We made the place for Abraham the place of the House so that you do not associate anything with Me). [1 2] [13] Hajj is a great occasion to discipline the soul and adapt it to avoid disobedience and sins, and in this the Lord Almighty says: (The Hajj is the months of information, so whoever imposes the Hajj in them, there is no obscenity, no immorality, no seriousness in Hajj, and whatever good you do, Allah knows it),[14] It is no secret that Hajj, with its rituals and deeds, educates the nation on the true meanings of unity. Where all material differences disappear between them, and the meanings of familiarity, cooperation and good advice are present. [13] Types of Ihram in Hajj Ihram is defined as: the intention to enter the rituals of Hajj or Umrah, and it is verified from the legally specified time, and a Muslim who intends to perform Hajj to the Sacred House of God can The intention is held in three different ways. Either he singles out the intention for the Hajj, or combines it with the Umrah, or makes it a contract to perform the Umrah and then the Hajj, and an explanation of each of them is as follows:[15] Oh God, with a pilgrimage." The second form: the union with the Hajj, and it is by contracting the intention to perform the actions of Umrah and Hajj together, by saying: “For you, O God, Hajj and Umrah,” by performing one ritual, or by adding the obligatory Hajj to the Umrah before circumambulation, and it is sufficient for the majority of scholars from the Maliki, Shafi’i, and Hanbali to circumambulate and seek once. one on Hajj and Umrah, while the Hanafis disagreed with them; They said to circumambulate and seek twice; Once for the Hajj, and the other for the Umrah, with their agreement that the sacrifice must be presented to the pilgrim who performs Hajj. The third picture: Enjoying the Umrah to Hajj, and it is by contracting the intention to perform the rituals of Umrah first, then performing the rituals of the Hajj; So the Muharram begins with the Umrah, and ends its rituals in the months of Hajj, then he dissolves from his Umrah, and he stays in Makkah while he is released from his Ihram until the time for Hajj comes, then he enters Ihram with it, and performs his work and rituals, provided that this is in one year, and the scholars also unanimously agreed that it is obligatory The sacrifice is in the right of the pilgrim who is doing tamattu’. The provisions of the pilgrimage The conditions of the pilgrimage The condition is defined in the language as: the sign, but in the legal terminology, it is: a description on which the existence of the ruling depends, and the ruling in its legal form is not achieved except with the existence of the condition that the legislator set for it, and it is external to the reality of the ruling, and is not part of it, and an example of that : A condition of ablution for the validity of prayer, and the truth of the condition is that its absence necessitates non-judgment, but its presence does not necessitate the existence of a ruling or its absence.[16] Hajj has conditions that cannot be fulfilled unless 
With it, and its statement as follows: [17] Islam, so Hajj is obligatory only for a Muslim; And the evidence for that is His saying - the Most High -: (O you who have believed, the polytheists are unclean, so do not come near the Sacred Mosque after this year of theirs, and if you fear poverty, then Allah will enrich you with God is All-Knowing, All-Wise.”[18] And from the Sunnah of the Prophet, what Imam al-Bukhari included in his Sahih On the authority of Abu Hurairah - may God be pleased with him -: (That no polytheist performs Hajj after the year, and does not circumambulate the House naked). [19] Reason: Hajj is not obligatory for the insane; Because he is devoid of reason, which is the basis for assignment; Evidence for the saying of the Messenger - upon him be peace and blessings: (The pen has been lifted from three, from the sleeper until he wakes up, from the little one until he grows up, and from the insane until he becomes sane or awakes). And if he performs the pilgrimage, it is valid from him, and he must perform the obligatory pilgrimage after he reaches puberty. This is evidenced by his saying - upon him be blessings and peace: (Any boy who performs Hajj, then reaches puberty, he must perform another Hajj, and any Bedouin who performs Hajj and then emigrates, he must perform another Hajj, and any slave who performs Hajj and then is emancipated, he must perform another Hajj).[ 21] The matter is no different with regard to the slave. The ability and ability The scholars have interpreted the ability mentioned in the words of God - the Almighty -: (And to God it is obligatory for the people to perform the pilgrimage to the House for those who are able to find a way to it), [22] as: the possession of provisions, i.e. the food and drink of the pilgrim, and the ride, which is the riding vehicle, and the condition of the ride is required in the right who lives Away from Mecca, but for those who can reach it on foot, it is not stipulated in his right to depart. It should be noted that the pilgrim must either be able to perform the pilgrimage himself; Then it is obligatory in his right, or he is unable to perform the rituals himself, and his inability is not without two cases; The disability may be temporary, such as if he suffers from an emergency disease that prevents him from performing the rituals of Hajj with the hope of recovery from it. In this case, the Hajj is postponed until he recovers from his illness. And if death overtakes him before the ability becomes available, then he is not sinful for that, and someone else performs the pilgrimage on his behalf from the money he left, and the Muslim may be unable to perform the rituals due to a permanent disability. Because of a chronic illness from which there is no hope of recovery, or his inability to ride, then he does not have to perform the rituals himself, and he may delegate someone else to perform them. Evidence for this is what was mentioned in the Sunnah of the Prophet from the hadith of Ibn Abbas - may God be pleased with them -: (that a woman from Kha’am asked the Messenger of God - may God’s prayers and peace be upon him - during the Farewell Pilgrimage, and Al-Fadl bin Abbas was the companion of the Messenger of God - may God’s prayers and peace be upon him) and she said: : O Messenger of God, the duty of God in the Hajj met my father, an old man who could not be equal on the departed woman, so will it be spent on his behalf that I perform the Hajj on his behalf, and the Messenger of God - may God’s prayers and peace be upon him - said to her: Yes). [23] The presence of a husband or a mahram for the woman is not obligatory. Hajj is not permissible for a woman except with the availability of a Mahram for her. For violating the texts of Sharia that forbid a woman to travel without a husband or mahram. As Imam Al-Bukhari included in his Sahih that the Prophet - upon him be blessings and peace - said: (It is not permissible for a woman who believes in God and the Last Day to travel the distance of a day and night without her sanctity). [24] The pillars of Hajj The meaning of the pillar in the language refers to: the strong thing. J who does not fit The matter does not exist without it, and that is why it was called the pillars of Hajj. Because it is the basis of the pilgrimage, and what is based on it; As it is not valid and does not exist without it, but in the legal terminology, the pillar is: what was part of the essence of the thing, and its completeness does not happen except with its presence, so it is something inside the nature of the thing. [25] The pillars of Hajj according to the Shafi’is, Malikis, and Hanbalis are four, namely: Ihram, standing with Arafat, seeking, and circumambulating the visit, and the Shafi’is added two pillars, namely: the arrangement between those pillars, and shaving or shortening, while the Hanafis are the pillars of Hajj with them confined to standing with Arafah, and circumambulation, and detailing each pillar as follows: [26] Ihram for Hajj, which is a pillar According to the majority of scholars, and a condition of validity according to the Hanafis, what is meant by the Ihram: entering into the worship of Hajj, and having the intention to perform its rituals, and according to the Hanafis it includes the intention and the Talbiyah together, and the Talbiyah is by saying: “At your service, O Allah.” Standing at Arafah is one of the most important pillars of Hajj. And it is with the pilgrim standing and being in the land of Arafah, and his failure entails missing the whole Hajj, and thus the pilgrimage must be repeated in the coming years, and the pillar of standing in Arafah has been proven in the Qur’an, the Sunnah, and consensus. From the Holy Qur’an, God Almighty says: (Then hasten from where the people hastened),[27] and from the Sunnah of the Prophet - upon him be blessings and peace: (The pilgrimage is Arafa, so whoever realizes the night of Arafa before dawn on the night of gathering has completed his pilgrimage), [28] The scholars have unanimously agreed that standing in Arafah is one of the pillars of the pilgrimage, and their sayings varied about the time of standing in Arafah and its duration, and this is explained in the following: The time of standing in Arafah. At Arafah it is at night, and whoever leaves standing in any part of the night will not have come to the pillar of standing, and he must repeat the Hajj. And they said that leaving standing during the day must pay the ransom, even if it was deliberately left without an excuse; Considering that standing during the day is obligatory for the Malikis, while the Hanbalis held that it starts from the dawn of the day of Arafah and ends with the dawn of the day of sacrifice. The duration of standing at Arafah has been detailed by scholars; The Hanbalis and Hanbalis divided the standing time into two periods. The first: the time of the corner; It is the time during which the duty of standing is performed, and it is the presence in Arafah, even if a little, the time of standing, and the second: the time that is obligatory; And it is by standing in Arafah since noon
His day until sunset, and not to leave Arafah until after sunset, even for one moment; That is, for the pilgrim to combine his standing in Arafah between night and day. The Malikis said that standing in Arafah is at night, while the Shafi’is said that it is Sunnah to combine night and day in Arafah, and it is not obligatory to combine, and it is sufficient to stand in Arafah at any time from the noon of its day until the dawn of the Day of Sacrifice. Tawaf al-Ziyarah or Tawaf al-Ifadah The Tawaf al-Hajj was named after these two names. Because the pilgrim comes to Makkah Al-Mukarramah, or overflows to it from Mina without staying in it, and the legitimacy of circumambulation is indicated by His saying - the Almighty -: (and circumambulate the Ancient House). Safiyyah bint Huyay after she broke her fast, Aisha said: Then she mentioned her menstruation to the Messenger of God - may God bless him and grant him peace -, and the Messenger of God - may God bless him and grant him peace - said: M-: Is she holding us back? After the overflow, the Messenger of God, may God’s prayers and peace be upon him, said: “Let us flee.” [30] Muslims also unanimously agree on its hypothesis, and the pilgrims perform it on the Day of Sacrifice after performing the rituals of stoning, slaughtering, shaving and cutting; The circumambulation is seven rounds, while the Hanafis considered the most important pillar in circumambulation. That is, four rounds. As for the seven, they are among the duties that are compelled by the ransom. It is required in the circumambulation of the visit to enter ihram and stand in Arafah before it; It is not valid to do any of the acts of Hajj without ihram, and it is not valid to circumambulate also before standing in Arafa by consensus of scholars, and it was not required by the Shafi’is, Hanafis, and Malikis to specify the intention of circumambulation; In order for the circumambulation to enter the Hajj intention in general, the Hanbalis stipulated that the intention of the visit circumambulation be specified. The pursuit between Al -Safa and Al -Marwah, where the pilgrim floating between Al -Safa and Al -Marwah seven runs after the circumambulation of Al -Iddah, and the pursuit of the pillars of the pilgrimage to Al -Shafi’i, Al -Maliki, and the Hanbali, and a duty of Hanafiya that the ransom arises with its destruction, and it is necessary to walk for the capable of the Hanafi, and the Maliki, and it is essential. Obligations of obligatory pilgrimage Linguistically: from necessity and steadfastness, it is said: the matter is obligatory; That is, it has become necessary and fixed. As for the duty in idiomatically, it is: what is required by the matter, and the reward and reward entails upon its performance, and the consequence of leaving it is punishment and sin. Ihram from the Miqat, which is the place that was made for Ihram for Hajj and Umrah; And the evidence for the necessity of this is what Imam Al-Bukhari included in his Sahih from the words of the Prophet - upon him be blessings and peace: (They are for them, and for those who came to them from other than them who wanted Hajj and Umrah).[31] That the Prophet - upon him be peace and blessings be upon him - permitted his uncle Al-Abbas to stay overnight in Makkah for watering, as it was proven in Sahih Al-Bukhari on the authority of Abdullah bin Omar - may God be pleased with them -: In Makkah the nights of Mina in order to water him, so he gave him permission). And the evidence for the legality of spending the night in Mina is from the Noble Qur’an, in which the Almighty says: A sin upon him is for those who fear God, and fear God, and know that you will be gathered to Him). [33] Night, and the Hanafis went, contrary to the majority of jurists, that staying overnight in Mina is Sunnah. [34] Overnight in Muzdalifah is one of the duties of Hajj by consensus of scholars, and what indicates its legitimacy from the Sunnah of the Prophet is his saying - upon him be blessings and peace: (He who witnessed this prayer of ours, and stood with us, until We pay, and he stood at Arafah before that, day or night, for he had completed his pilgrimage, and he spent his utterances). As for the Shafi’is and Hanbalis, they said that the overnight stay in Muzdalifah begins from the middle of the night of Sacrifice in any part of it, even an hour. Following the example of the Prophet - upon him be blessings and peace -. As for the Malikis, they made it obligatory to spend the night in Muzdalifah as long as the traveler settled, and they considered staying overnight in Muzdalifah as a Sunnah and not an obligation. Among the Sunnahs of staying overnight in Muzdalifah is hastening to perform the dawn prayer on the night of sacrifice, supplication, tahlil, and talbiyah, and to overflow to Mina from Muzdalifah before sunrise. Throwing the Jamarat The Jamarat is the small pebble with which the pilgrims throw the Jamarat, and the pilgrims throw three Jamarat, which are: Jamarat al-Aqaba or Jamra al-Kubra; It is located at the end of Mina in the direction of Makkah Al-Mukarramah, and Jamrat Al-Aqaba Al-Wusta. It is located before Jamrat al-Aqaba for those heading to Mina. Al-Jamrah Al-Sughra; It is the oneOn wiping the head in ablution, while it is achieved by the Malikis and Hanbalis by shortening all the hair of the head, or shaving it, as for women, they are allowed to shorten without shaving. The farewell circumambulation, which is one of the duties of the pilgrimage to the majority of scholars from the Hanafi, Shafi’i, and Hanbali; They inferred its obligation from the Sunnah by saying - upon him be blessings and peace: (The people were commanded to be the last of their covenant in the house, except that it was reduced for menstruating women),[37] while the Malikis disagreed with them; They said that it is Sunnah and not obligatory. As for the duties related to the original statutes and duties, they are: [25] Ihram from the meeqaat, and avoiding its prohibitions. Purification for circumambulation from impurity and minorities, covering the private parts, making the Kaaba to the right, starting the circumambulation by touching the Black Stone, performing two rak'ahs after it, walking for the one who is able to do it, and performing the circumambulation of the ifaadah on the days of sacrifice. Performing the Sa'y walking for those who are able to do so. Collecting the Maghrib and Isha prayers at a delay in Muzdalifah after standing at Arafah, and continuing to stand there until sunset.[38] rituals on the Day of Sacrifice; That the pilgrim starts throwing stones, then the guidance, then the throat, with the exception of the individual pilgrimage; It is obligatory in his right to precede the stoning of Jamrat al-Aqaba on the throat. [38] The Sunnahs of Hajj The Sunnahs of Hajj are: the deeds that the pilgrim is rewarded for if he performs them, and nothing entails if he leaves them, and they are: [25] Tawaf al-Qudum, which is a year for those coming from outside Makkah; Considering that the circumambulation is the greeting of the House, as was the opinion of the majority of Shafi’i, Hanbali, and Hanafi scholars; And they inferred this from what was authentically reported by the Mother of the Believers, Aisha - may God be pleased with her -: (The first thing he started doing when he came to Mecca was that he performed ablution, then circumambulated the House). [39] The Malikis disagreed with them; They said that the arrival circumambulation is obligatory. Following the example of the Prophet - upon him be blessings and peace -, and the time for Tawaf Al-Qudum begins with entering Mecca, and ends with standing in Arafat. The imam’s sermons, as there are four sermons during Hajj: The first: the sermon on the seventh day of Dhul-Hijjah, which is Sunnah according to the Hanafis and Shafi’is. The second: the sermon on the day of Arafah, which is a Sunnah by agreement of the scholars, and it is indicated that the sermon on the day of Arafah consists of two sermons; The preacher sits between them, and explains in them the provisions of Hajj and its rituals, and urges them to draw closer to God - Glory be to Him - and to increase supplication and supplication. The third: the sermon of the eleventh day; It is according to the Hanafis in Mina, and it is the Day of Sacrifice according to the Shafi’is. In addition to a fourth sermon: in Mina on the second day of al-Tashreeq. overnight in Mina; With the performance of five prayers. Al-Tahsib, and what is meant by it: disembarking in the valley of Al-Muhassab at the entrance to Makkah at the time of the mobilization from Mina to Makkah, after completing all the rituals, and what is evidenced by what Imam Muslim reported in his Sahih on the authority of Osama bin Zaid - may God be pleased with him -: (I said: O Messenger of God, Where will you stay tomorrow? And that was during his pilgrimage when we came close to Mecca, and he said: Did Aqeel leave us a house? About it -: (The Messenger of God - may God’s prayers and peace be upon him) was revealed Peace and blessings be upon him - Al-Muhassab is to allow his departure and not according to the Sunnah, so whoever wants to take him down, and whoever wants does not take him down). , Discharge of responsibility, return rights and trusts to their owners, bid farewell to family and friends while asking them to pray for acceptance, and facilitate things. Istikharah following the example of the Prophet - upon him be blessings and peace -؛ As he taught his companions istikhaarah in all matters, and istikhaarah is not to worship the pilgrimage in itself, but rather to ask God for success in initiating it, and facilitating its conditions. The Muslim prays two rak'ahs, then calls on his Lord. Writing a will and supplying money and supplies sufficient to meet the needs, with the possibility of alms to those in need.[43] Accompanying good companionship on travel.[43] Invalidators of Hajj The Hajj invalidates, and the Muslim must come up with another argument for the following reasons:[44] Not to come up with a pillar of The pillars of Hajj. Intercourse, if it was before stoning Jamrat al-Aqabah. that follows the Al-Khaif Mosque, and the pilgrim throws the Jamarat Al-Aqaba only on the Day of Sacrifice, and throws the three Jamarat; The minor, then the middle, then the major on the days of al-Tashreeq, and the stoning of each Jamrah is carried out with seven pebbles. Shaving or shortening, and its legitimacy is inferred from the Book of God, as stated in His saying - the Most High -: (Indeed, God His Messenger fulfilled the vision with truth, so that you will enter the Sacred Mosque, God willing. Amen Do not be afraid of your heads shaved and shortened, so He knew what you did not know, so He made besides that a near conquest).[36] ] And shaving is better than shortening according to the agreement of scholars, and it is achieved by Shafi’i by removing three hairs, or shortening them, but the amount at the tap is by shaving a quarter of the head, or shortening it; By analogy
